CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 26 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional o If it was m ale breast cancer o If it resulted in death • If they have known BRC A1/BRCA 2 mutation s • If they have other mutations that may be relevant to breast cancer ( e.g., Tumor Protein P53 (TP53 ), phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN )) For guidance on representing data about subjects’ family members in SDTM -based domains , see the SDTM Implementation Guide for Associated Persons (SDTMIG -AP). 4 Disease Management and Assessments The m anagement of breast cancer depends on tumor histology and characteristics, a xial lymph node status, receptor status, presence or absence of metastatic disease, results of multigene panel testing, and patient factors ( e.g., age, menopausal status, comorbid conditions) , including the patient’s preference for treatment, especially if the predicted survival benefits are equivalent for different treatment option s. In the context of clinical trials, treatment can be categorized according to intent and setting . A treatment’s intent is the best kind of effect it could be expected to have on the disease . Treatments with curative intent ultimately hope to completely destroy the cancer and prevent its recurrence. Treatments with palliative intent are typically given when the condition is incurable , and aim instead to halt the progression of the disease and/or improve the patient’s q uality of life. The s etting describes the treatment’s purpose in relation to the primary treatment, which for cancer is the surgical removal of th e cancerous tissue. Treatment given in the neoadjuvant setting is administered prior to surgery in the hopes of mitigating the cancer, potentially eliminating the tumor prior to surgery . Treatment given in the adjuvant setting is administered after surgery, with the primary goal of destroying any remaining cancer and preventing recurre nce. Both neoadjuvant and a djuvant therapies , therefore, are given with curative intent. The advanced/metastatic setting is associated with Stage IV cancer , when surgery may be inapplicable or inadvisable. Advanced therapies are given with palliative intent. In general, study trea tments are assessed with regard to one setting/intent at a time, though success in one area may prompt investigation into its potential efficacy in other settings.