CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 61 Provisional May 16, 2016 Appendix C: Glossary and Abbreviations ADaM Analysis Data Model Adjuvant therapy Therapy administered to augment or stimulate other treatment modalities or to minimize or prevent disease recurrence subsequent to the main treatment plan. AJCC American Joint Committee on Cancer AMA American Medical Association BC, BrCa Breast cancer BDS Basic Data Structure Biomedical Concept A high-level building block of healthcare and clinical research information that encapsulate s lower -level implementation details , like variables and terminologies . BLBC Basal -like breast c ancer BOR Best overall respo nse BRCA1 , BRCA2 Breast cancer 1, early onset; breast cancer 2, early onset. Sometimes called “breast cancer susceptibility” genes. BRIDG Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group CDASH Clinical Data Acquisition S tandards Harmonization Project CDISC Clinical Data In terchange Standards C onsortium CFAST Coalition for A ccelerating Standards and Therapies Collected “Collected” refers to information that is recorded and/or transmitted to the sponsor. This includes data entered by the site on CRFs/eCRFs as well as vendor data such as core lab data. This term is a synonym for “captured .” Controlled Terminology A finite set of values that represent the only allowed values for a data item. These values may be codes, text, or numeric. A code list is one type of controlled terminology. C-Path Critical Path Institute CR Complete response CRF Case report form (som etimes called a case record f orm). A printed, optical, or electronic document designed to record all required information to be reported to the sponsor for each trial subject. CTCAE Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CT/PET Scan Computed t omography /positron emission tomography s can CT Scan Computed tomography scan Curative Treatment where the intention is to cure the disease . DCIS Ductal carcinoma in situ . A carcinoma entirely confined to the mammary ducts, with no evidence of invasion o f the basement membrane. Also called intraductal carcinoma. DFS Disease -free survival DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid Domain A collection of observations with a topic -specific commonality about a subject. EFS Even t-free survival EGFR Epidermal growth factor receptor ; also called ERBB1. ER, EsR Estrogen receptor FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration Foundational Standards Refers to the suite of CDISC standards that describe the clinical study protocol (Protocol), design (Study Design), data collection (CDASH), laboratory work (Lab), analysis (ADaM), and data tabulation (SDTM and SEND). See http://www.cdisc.org/ for more information on each of these clinical data standards. H&E Hematoxylin and eosin (stain) HER2 Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2; also called HER2/ neu, ERBB2. IHC Immunohistochemistry Ipsilateral Belonging to or occurring on the same side of the body. ISH In situ hybridization ITT Intent to treat