CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 17 Provisional May 16, 2016 Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description Lobular Carcinoma In Situ Grade (LCIS Grade ) The degree of abnormality of lobular breast carcinoma in situ. Terms and descriptions in this table were informed by contributions from CFAST membership organizations and by the NCI EVS . The table above show examples of some of the most common grading sc ales. There are other grading scales that might be used depending upon sponsor/protocol requirements. The findings below may be collected as results of a general microscopic examination looking for abnormalities, or may be coll ected via individual questions with present/absent responses. Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list but details the more common types. Table 3.3.4: Pre-specified Findings Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description Calcification Basophilic, granular deposits of inorganic material in tissue. Calcification can be a radi ologic, gross, or microscopic pathologic finding. It may or may not indicat e the presence of cancer. Extranodal Extension The extension of the cancer beyond the lymph node capsule. Sometimes also called “extranodal involvement. ” Lymphatic -Vascular Invasion The presence of tumor emboli or tumor masses within lymphatic or circulatory vessels. Lymphatic and/or vascular invasion is a microscopi c finding, implying that the tumor has metastasized. Skin Involvement Breast carcinoma with macroscopic and/or histologic extension to the skin. Macroscopic skin involvement refers to inflammator y breast carcinoma, which is classified as AJCC stage IIIB (T4d) unless other criteria suggest more advanced staging. Histologic skin involvement only refers to non -inflammatory breast carcinoma, which extends to the skin without macroscopic evidence of skin involvement. Non -inflammatory breast carcinomas usually are of lower stage and have a less aggressive clinical course as compared to inflammatory breast carcinomas. Terms and descriptions in this table were informed by contributions from CFAST membership organizations and by the NCI EVS . The following table contains genetic and molecular analysis terms related to breast cancer . Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list but details the more common types. Table 3.3.5: Genet ic/Molecular Analysis Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description BRCA1 Mutation BRCA 1 is a tumor suppressor gene .16 About 5% to 10% of breast cancers are hereditary .17 Germline (inheritable) mutations in the Breast Cancer 1 early onset ( BRCA1 ) gene often result in a truncated form of the protein it encodes (also BRCA1, sometimes called the breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein) . Some mutations are known to be associat ed with increased breast and ovarian cancer (deleterious). Some variants may be identified on a pathology report but are not yet known to be deleterious. BRCA2 Mutation Like BRCA1 , BRCA2 is a tumor suppressor gene16 that encodes a protein responsible for repairing DNA.18 Germline (inheritable) mutations in the BRCA2 gene are associated with increased risk of male breast cancer. Single nucleotide substitutions and small deletions or insertions (1 –20 bases) account for the majority of mutations in the BRCA2 gene. Most of these alterations result in a truncated form of the breast cancer type 2 susceptibility protein. Some mutations are known to be associated with increased breast and ovarian cancer (deleterious). Some variants may be identified on a pathology report but are not yet known to be deleterious.