CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 14 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional testing of the tumor may occur using a multigene assay or a DNA microarray to assess the risk of disease recurrence, likelihood of development of distant metastases, or to predict responsiveness to systemic therapy. For instance, cDNA microarray analysis of fine needle aspirate in a group of breast cancer patients identified an expression profile of 37 genes, including HMG1 (High Mobility Group Box 1) and COX17 (Cytochrome C Oxidase Copper Chaperone), implicated in good response versus poor response to chemotherapy .11 The combined pathological data are used to determine cancer aggressivenes s, and the risk of recurrence, as well as to guide treatment decisions. Note that the abbreviations and test names given in the tables in this section are those commonly used in clinical practice. These abbreviations are not necessarily the --TESTCD and --TEST values in CDISC Controlled Terminology. Similarly, the descriptions of these tests are given in the context of breast ca ncer, and may not be the Controlled Terminology definitions. When constructing standard datasets, consult the current version of C DISC Controlled Terminology (available at: http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/cancerlibrary/terminologyresources/cdisc ) for values of --TEST and --TESTCD. The foll owing table lists molecular measurements related to breast cancer . Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list b ut details the more common measurements . Table 3.3.1: Molecular Measurements Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description Estrogen Receptor (ER, EsR ) Estrogen receptors belong to the nuclear hormone family of intracellular receptors encoded by the human ESR1 and ESR2 genes. The hormone estrogen and other ligands bind to these receptors to stimulate DNA transcription or cell signaling. Estrogen receptor alpha is the predominant estrogen receptor expressed in breast tissue and is overexpressed in around 50% of breast carcinomas .12 ER status (positive=present or overexpre ssed; negative=absent) is a factor in determining prognosis and treatment options. The following details, of an assessment to determine estrogen receptor status, may sometimes be collected. Receptor Positivity Receptor positivity may be a qualitative or quantitative measure of the percentage of cells that are positive for staining of hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Receptor Proportion Score (PS) Receptor proportion score is a qualitative measurement of the proportion of cells that are positive for staining of hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Receptor Intensity Score (IS) Receptor intensity score is a qualitative measure of the average staining intensity for hormone re ceptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Receptor Total Score (TS) Receptor total score is a computed score that takes into account a combination of the results of the above measures for hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. These scores can be a factor in determin ing prognosis and treatment options. Progesterone Receptor (PR, PgR ) Progesterone receptors belong to the nuclear hormone receptors of the NR3C class and are encoded by the human PGR gene. The hormone progesterone binds to these receptors to stimulate DNA transcription and cell signaling. Progesterone receptor is expressed in 65% of breast carcinomas.13 PR status (positive=present or overexpressed; negative=absent) is a factor in d etermining prognosis and treatment options. The following details, of an assessment to determine progesterone receptor status, may sometimes be collected. Receptor Positivity Receptor positivity may be a qualitative or quantitative measure of the percentage of cells that are positive for staining of hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Receptor Proportion Score (PS) Receptor proportion score is a qualitative measurement of the proportion of cells that are positi ve for staining of hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor.