CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 8 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional • If Tumor Is Inevaluable, Reason Not Done ( Target and Non -Target Lesions): Current modelling of tumor state of inevaluable shows that the result will be missing, status will be NOT DONE, and the reason is mapped to the --REASND variable. This modelling does not capture that the tumor was inevaluable. At the time of publication there were ongoing discussions on how best to model this data. The user is cautioned that the current modelling may therefore be subject to change. • Use of the PARQUAL Variable: Some AD aM examples make use of PARQUAL, a proposed variable with restricted defined usage currently under consideration by the CDISC ADaM team. Note, however, that this variable is incompatible with the current ADaMIG, which states, “PARAM must include all descri ptive and qualifying information relevant to the analysis purpose of the parameter.” 2 Overview of Breast Cancer Breast cancer is a solid tumor cancer arising in the epithelial cells of the breast, most commonly the milk ducts or glands. Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in women worldwide, in both developed and developing countries . It is the leading cause of cancer death in women, accounting for 23% of total cancer cases and 14% of cancer deaths.1 In the U .S., breast cancer acco unts for 29% of newly diagnosed cancers and 15% of cancer deaths in women.2 Breast cancer also occurs in men, but it is rare. The figure below describes breast cancer treatment in terms of the intent and setting and endpoints associated with these settings. More detailed information can also be found in Appendix E . This document is organized by kinds of data collected in clinical trials, and most kinds of data would be collected in trials in all treatment settings, though with different purposes. For example, pathology data on excised tumors is part of disease history for studies in the adjuvant or advanced settings ; in the neo -adjuvant setting, however, this data can be used in determining the endpoint complete pathologic response. Some of the examples in this document repre sent data for particular settings, while others would apply to multiple settings: Use Case Example Neoadjuvant Adjuvant Advanced Estrogen receptor status Section 3.3.1 Example 1 X X X Gross pathology Section 3.3.1 Example 2 X X Prior anti -neoplastic therapy Section 3.4.1 Example 1 X Prior ra diotherapy Section 3.4.1 Example 2 X Figure 3: Treatment Settings in Breast Cancer