CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 19 Provisional May 16, 2016 Common Name (Abbreviation) Description Inflammatory Breast Cancer An advanced, invasive breast adenocarcinoma characterized by the p resence of distinct changes in the overlying skin. These changes include diffuse erythema, edema, peau d'orange (skin of an orange) appearance, tenderness, induration, warmth, enlargement, and in some cases a palpable mass. Inflammatory breast cancer is so -called because of its similar presentation to mastitis, but it is not itself an inflammation. The skin changes are the consequence of lymphatic obstruction from the underlying invasive breast adenocarcinoma. Microscopically, the dermal lymphatics show p rominent infiltration by malignant cells. The invasive breast aden ocarcinoma is usually of ductal NOS type. Invasive Carcinoma Mixed Ductal and Lobular An invasive ductal breast carcinoma associated with a lobular carcinomatous component. The lobular car cinomatous component may be in situ or invasive. Invasive Ductal Carcinoma Not Otherwise Specified (NOS) The most common type of invasive breast carcinoma, accounting for approximately 70% of breast carcinomas. The gross appearance is usually typical with an irregular stellate outline. Microscopically, randomly arranged epithelial elements are seen. When large sheets of malignant cells are present, necrosis may be seen. With adequate tissue sampling, in situ carcinoma can be demonstrated in association w ith the infiltrating carcinoma. The in situ component is nearly always ductal but occasionally may be lobular or both. Invasive Lobular Carcinoma An invasive adenocarcinoma arising in the lobules of the mammary gland, as opposed to the ducts. The malignan t cells lack cohesion and are arranged individually , in a linear manner (Indian files), or as narrow trabeculae within the stroma. The malignant cells are usually smaller than those of ductal carcinoma, are less pleomorphic, and have fewer mitotic figures. Lum inal A A biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by high expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cells, includi ng estrogen receptor (ER), estrogen regulated protein (LIV-1), and the transcription factors hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 (HNF3) , hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 alpha ( HNF3A ), X-Box binding protein 1 (XBP1 ), and GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3 ). This subtype of breast cancer is associated with a good prognosis. [NCI] Luminal B A biologic subset of breast carcinoma defined by low to moderate expression of genes characteristic of luminal epithelial cel ls including estrogen receptor (ER), and high expression of gamma -glutamyl h ydrolase (GGH ), lysosomal protein transmembrane 4 beta (LAPTM4B ), and Cycline E1 (CCNE1 ). This subtype of breast cancer is associated with a good prognosis, although not as favorable as the luminal A subtype. [NCI] Medullary Carcinoma A rare subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma called “medullary” because the tissue resembles the medulla of the brain. Medullary carcinoma is a less aggressive form of cancer. Metaplastic Breast Cancer (MBC) A rare invasive carcinoma showing differentiation toward cartilaginous structures (chondroid metaplasia) or toward bone structures (ossia metaplasia). Data on MBC are limited,20 and prognostic implications have yet to be fully determined.21,22 Mucinous Carcinoma An invasive adenocarcinoma of the breast characterized by the presence of islands of small and uniform cells, surrounded by large amounts of mucin. Pure mucinous breast carcinomas generally have a favorable prognosis. Paget's Disease A malignant neoplasm composed of large cells with large nuclei, prominent nucleoli, and abundant pale cytoplasm (Paget cells). Usually arises in the nipple. Papillary Carcinoma A malignant epithelial neoplasm characterized by small finger -like (papillary) growths . Papillary carcinoma can be intraductal or invasive. The intraductal papillary carcinoma in the absence of concomitant DCIS or invasive carcinoma in the surrounding tissues has a favorable prognosis.