CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 6 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional Figure 1: Concept Classification Key for Concept Maps This classification is based on classes in the BRIDG model (available at http://bridgmodel.nci.nih.gov/ ). These color -symbol pairs have been used to highlight kinds of things that occur commonly in clinical data and therefore give rise to common patterns of data. Some concepts are not coded; they have a thinner, black outline, and no accompanying symbol. These may include the subject of an observation, as well as characteristics, or attributes, of the coded concepts. 1.4 Controlled Terminology CDISC Controlled Terminology is a set of standard value lis ts that are used throughout the clinical research process, from data collection through analysis and submission. Controlled terminology is updated quarterly by the CDISC Terminology Team and published by the National Cancer Institute’s Enterprise Vocabular y Services (NCI EVS) at: http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/cancerlibrary/terminologyresources/cdisc . Although the examples in CDISC data standards try to appear p lausible, including using controlled terminology where available, they should not be regarded as a definitive source for actual data or for controlled terminology. Some codelists and/or values applicable to biomedical concepts and data elements in this doc ument may still be in development at the time of publication. Some examples may use values that appear to be c ontrolled terminology, but that are actually generic or “best guess ” placeholders. Readers should consult the current CDISC Controlled Terminology (available at the link above) as the ultimate authority for correct controlled terminology codelists and values. 1.5 Relationships to Other Standards This section describes the relationship of this document to other standards, whether CDISC or external. This document does not replace the foundational CDISC standards or their implementation guides. User s should read those standards and implementation guides before applying the advice in this user guide. CDISC data standards are living documents. Due to diffe ring update cycles, some of the modeling approaches and controlled terminology presented in the examples in this document may become outdated before the next version is released. Some kinds of data (e.g., demography, subject characteristics, substance use, reproductive history, adverse event s) are already sufficiently covered by the existing standards and can be used in breast cancer studies without additional development or customization. These kinds of data are not discussed in this document. The SDTM Examples for Oncology Use Cases is heavily referenced by certain sections within this document. It is available at: http://wiki.cdisc.org/x/5yuyAQ .