CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 64 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional Appendix E: Clinical Background The presence of carcinoma is confirmed by pathology assessment of biopsy samples collected by fine needle aspiration, core needle biopsy, or excisional biopsy of a breast abnormality identified by clinical examin ation and imaging or mammographically.27 A sentinel lymph node biopsy may be performed to reveal the presence of early - stage breast cancer in the location where cancerous cells are most likely to spread from a primary tumor before presenting clinically in the axial nodes .27 In contrast, axillary lymph node dissection is performed for local disease control in patients whose cancer s hows clinical or pathologic evidence of having spread to the axillary lymph node(s). There are two types of noninvasive breast cancer: lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). LCIS is a non -palpable breast lesion that is ind icative of an increased risk for invasive breast cancer and is potentially precancerous .28 LCIS tends to occur multi -focally and bilaterally and is more common in premenopausal women . Cases of LCIS can be observed with follow -up imaging or be excised by core needle biopsy, but treatment for LCIS is somewhat controversial. LCIS diagnoses by excisional biopsies ma y be upgraded to invasive cancer.29 DCIS refers to proliferation of mammary ductal epithelial cells that appear to be malignant but without evidence of invasion through the base ment membrane . 27 The recommended patient workup for patients with suspected DCIS includes histo ry and physical examination, bilateral diagnostic mammography, pathology review, and tumor estrogen receptor (ER) determination, with genetic counseling provided if the patient is considered at high risk for hereditary breast cancer. Magnetic resonance imaging is considered an optional test. Primary therapy is the main treatment used to reduce or eliminate the cancer. 10 DCIS include s lumpectomy followed by clinical observation, lumpectomy with breast irradiation, or total mastectomy. The latter may be required in cases in which widespread disease (two or more quadrants) is evident and patients may be candidates for breast reconstruction. DCIS may reoccur as either DCIS or invasive breast cancer. Adjuvant therapy is administered after primary treatment to eliminate the tumor to i ncrease the chance of long - term survival.10 Adjuvant therapy is typically given to patients whose disease is likely to recur. For DCIS patients with tumor ER positive status, t amoxifen has shown a role in preventing disease recurrence in the ipsilateral or contralateral breast following breast conservation surgery and irradiation. Disease management of early -stage breast cancer (I to IIIA (T3N1M0) ) aims to eradicate the primar y tumor and any micro -metastatic disease. In early -stage breast cancer, a mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection has been shown to be equivalent to breast conserving therapy with lumpectomy, axillary dissection, and whole breast radiation as primar y treatment.30 Radiation therapy is administered as part of the primary therapy in patients undergoing lumpectomy. Depending on the characteristics of the tumor, lumpectomy may not be an appropriate option, such as in the case of diffuse or widespread disease that cannot be resected with a single incision. Neoadjuvant therapy refers to treatment administered prior to the primary therapy with the goal of shrinking the tumor.30 In patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive (HER2 -positive) breast cancer, neoadjuvant systematic therapy may include HER2 -targeted agents. Neoadjuvant endocrine therapy (tamoxifen and an aromatase inhibitor , either alone or in combination) may have a role in the management of ER -positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Adjuvant therapy options for early -stage breast cancer include completion of chemotherapy (if not completed as neoadjuvant therapy), endocrine therapy in patients with ER - and/or progesterone (PR) -positive tumor s, and up to one year of targeted trastuzumab therapy in HER2- positive breast cancer. 31 Radiation therapy is us ed in the adjuvant setting post -mastectomy in patients with node -positive disease and in node -negative tumors with a high rate of local recurrence (based on tumor size and extent of pathologic margins). In patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, radiatio n may be delayed until after chemotherapy has been completed.