CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 63 Provisional May 16, 2016 Appendix D: Non-Standard Variables The following table lists the NSVs used in the examples in this document, either as additional variables in sample datasets o r as mapping annotations on sample CRFs, and gives their parent domain and variable -level metadata. Parent Domain Variable Label Type Codelist/ Controlled Terms Role Description Comments CM RSDISC Reason for Discontinuation text Non-Standard Record Qualifier The reason for ceasing (prior/concomitant) treatment. This variable is anticipated to become standard under a future version of SDTM. CM, PR TRT STT Setting text (TRT RTSTT) * Non-Standard Record Qualifier The setting as characterized by the purpose of the study treatment in relation to the primary treatment. Defined in the context of oncology studies; may not be appropriate for other studies. CM, PR TRTINT Treatment Intent text (TRTINTNT) * Non-Standard Record Qualifier The therapeutic intent of the treatment. MI PTSCL Point Scale text Non-Standard Variable Qualifier of MITSTDTL When the score is determined by a multi-point scale, how many points are on the scale. Examples: 4 -point scale, 6 -point scale. PR CMLDOS Cumulative Dose float Non-Standard Record Qualifier For treatments with a cumulative effect, the total dose administered over a time period May be defined by --STDTC and --ENDTC ). Used instead of -- DOSE. PR TRTBOR Best Overall Response text ** Non-Standard Record Qualifier The best outcome of the treatment. Only applicable to prior treatments. PR PRLOC n Procedure Location n text (LOC ) Non-Standard Record Qualifier The nth anatomical location of the procedure. Used when PRLOC = MULTIPLE; n stands for an integer between 1 and the maximum number of locations needed. PR RTTLFR Total Fractions Count integer Non-Standard Record Qualifier The cumulative dose expressed as the total number of fractions of the total intended dose. Only applicable to prior treatments. PR TRTDTL Treatment Detail text ** Non-Standard Variable Qualifier of PRTRT Further description of --TRT. In this document, this variable is used to hold the modality of the treatment. PR RRLTLC Treatment - Relative Location text ** Non-Standard Record Qualifier The location of the treatment’s target, relative to the primary site of disease. Defined in the context of oncology studies; may not be appropriate for other studies. TU LOCDTL Location Detail text Non-Standard Variable Qualifier of TULOC Specifies the exact location of the identified tumor or lesion for identification purposes . Used when --LOC, --LAT, and --DIR are not enough to distinguish it from another tumor/lesion in the same anatomical location. TU PRTYP Tumor or Lesion Presentation Type text (TUPRTYP) * Non-Standard Variable Qualifier of TULOC Specif ies the disease type of the identified non-measurable tumor or lesion for identification purposes . Used instead of --LAT/ --DIR or LOCDTL when the tumor/lesion is more readily identifiable by a description than by precise anatomical location. (Parenthesis indicates CDISC/NCI codelist) * Codelist has been requested but not yet added to CDISC controlled terminology . ** See the CDASH metadata for a list of suggested values.