CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 15 Provisional May 16, 2016 Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description Receptor Intensity Score (IS) Receptor intensity score is a qualitative measure of the average staining intensity for hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Receptor Total Score (TS) Receptor total score is a computed score that takes into account a combination of the results of the above measures for hormone receptors, such as estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. These sco res can be a factor in determin ing prognosis and treatment options. Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2, HER2/ neu) HER2 is a member of the human epidermal growth factor receptor family of proteins and is encoded by the ERBB2 oncogene. HER2 is overexpressed in 20 -30% of breast tumors,10 and is associated with an aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. HER2 status (positive=present or overexpressed; negative=absent) is a factor in determining prognosis and treatment options. Ki-67 Labelin g Index Ki-67 is a protein phosphatase whose expression is strongly associated with cell proliferation and encoded by the MKI67 gene. Th e Ki- 67 labeling index is the fraction of Ki -67-positive cells to total cells in a tumor specimen and may be useful for determining prognosis with respect to survival and disease recurrence. Terms and descriptions in this table were informed by contributions from CFAST membership organizations and by the NCI EVS . The following table lists cancer measurements related to breast cancer . Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list bu t details the more common measurements. Table 3.3.2: Cancer Measurements Common Test Name (Abbreviation) Description Tumor Size The size of the tumor, usually given in millimeters. Tumor size may refer to invasive cancer or in situ cancer. Pathologists measure the gross tumor in three dimensions. If the tumor is surrounded by normal tissue grossly, then the entire specimen is measured in three dimensions and the actual tumor in two dimensions. Size of Gross Tumor Bed The gross tumor bed is the tissue that envelops a tumor site, following the removal of the tumor. This assessment may contribute to the determination of whethe r neoadjuvant therapy is appropriate , but can be collected for other reasons as well. The measurement of the tumor bed includes at least two dimensions. Surgical Margin Status The presence of cancer in the resected tissue surrounding the tumor. Surgical margins can be either clean (clear, negative) o r positive. Clean surgical margins indicate that the entire tumor was removed successfully. Cellularity A measurement of the degr ee, quality , or condition of cells in a biological specimen. In terms of cancer, cellularity is the percentage of cells in a specimen that are cancerous. This assessment may contribute to the determination of whether neoadjuvant therapy is appropriate , but can be collected for other reasons as well. Cellularity is a concept that applies to all morphologic variations of cancer. Percentage of In Situ Carcinoma The percentage of the cancer that is in situ , as opposed to invasive. Size of Largest Lymph Node The size of the largest lymph node, usually given in millimeters. There is evidence that the presence of large lymph nodes with metastatic breast carcinoma is usually associated with lower overall survival. Note that an axillary lymph node may have meta static disease regardless of size. For instance , small lymph nodes may have metastases seen microscopically, while large lymph nodes sometimes show reactive follicular hyperplasia but no evidence of metastases.