CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 45 Provisional May 16, 2016 standard to the developm ent of analysis ready datasets. Please refer to Version 2.1 of the Analysis Data Model and Version 1. 1 of the Analysis Data Model Implementation Guide (ADaMIG) for required background about the ADaM and the ADaM data structures. This section focuses on just a few of the most common analysis endpoints used in breast cancer trials . There are additional analys is endpoints that are not illustrated and will be considered for inclusion in future TAUGs. It is noted that t he analysis of oncology data is complex. In addition to the ADaM examples, t his TAUG strives to describe the most common definitions for the derivation of analysis endpoints and any associated analysis issue, but there will always be exceptions to these recommendations. Readers must take responsibility to determine whether the statements and examples presented below are appropriate for their given trial and, if not, adapt their implementation accordingly. 5.1 Analysis Endpoints Analysis endpoints can be sp lit into two categories of time -to-event (TTE) and response endpoint s. TTE endpoints include outcomes such as date of death or date of progression. Re sponse endpoints are typically based on standardized definitions of response (e.g. RECIST), and are typically dichotomized be tween levels of clinically relevant response (PR/CR) versus not clinically relevant (SD/PD), though other splits and analyses are p ossible. The derivation of TTE endpoints is based on dates that define the start of the observation period and dates that define the occurrence of the event or the end of the observation period, in the case of censoring . In oncology trials, the date of th e start of the observation period is generally easy to identify , but the date associated with the event or censoring may require a detailed comparison between multiple candidate dates. The analysis issues associated with censoring are common to all time-to-event endpoints. Therefore, in the discussion below, issues associated with censoring are discussed within Section 5.1.1.1 and not re peated for subsequent sections. 5.1.1 Time to Event 5.1.1.1 Progression- free Survival – (PFS) The usual definition of PFS is the length of time until progression or death from any cause. For patients without a PFS event, PFS is censored at the last adequate assessment (see Section 5.1.1.1.1 , under Missing Assessments), as described in the analysis plan , indicating non-progression. A PFS event in breast cancer is usually identified by a progressive disease ( PD) response in RECIST or by an occurrence of death if it occurs prior to documented progression. PFS for patients without progression or death will be the time until the last time the patient was known to be progression- free as per protocol specified criteria . These patients without a PFS event are deemed to h ave a censored PFS value with the presence of censoring indicated by an accompanying censoring variable which is categorical in nature ( e.g., 0=Had the event , ≥1= Did not have the event (censored) ). Any time-to-event analysis of PFS will require both the derivation of PFS and the censoring variable. The study protocol should specify that response data used for the PFS endpoint are captured according to an assessment schedule which might vary over the course of the study (e.g., quarterly in the first two ye ars, and then after every 6 months ). In addition to the overall response assignment (CR/PR/SD/PD/UNK) ,