CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 62 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional LCIS Lobular carcinoma in situ. An adenocarcinoma entirely confined to the mammary lobules and characterized by a proliferation of monomorphic cells completely filling the lumina. The overall lobular architecture is preserved. MedDRA Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities. A global standard medical terminology designed to supersede other terminologies (such as COSTART and ICD9) used in the medi cal product development process. Metastasis A distant breast cancer recurrence ; also t he most dangerous type of recurrence . MRI Magnet ic resonance ima ging NAC Nipple -areolar complex NCCN National Comprehensive Cancer Network NCI National Cancer Institute NCI EVS National Cancer Institute Enterprise Vocabulary Services Neoadjuvant therapy Treatment given as a first step to shrink a tumor prior to the main treatment . NIH National Institutes of Health NSV Non-standard variable. A variable that is not among those included in the most recent, final version of SDTM and/or CDASH. OS Overall survival Palliative Treatment where the intention is to relieve symptoms of the disease without dealing with the cause of the disease . Patient A recipient of medical treatment. pCR Pathologic complete response PD Progressive disease PFS Progressio n-free survival PR, PgR Progesterone receptor (see also Section 1.6) PR Partial response ( see also Section 1.6) RECIST Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors RFS Relap se-free survival SDTM Study Data Tabulation Model SDTMIG Study Data Tabulation Model Implementation Guide (for Human Clinical Trials) Setting Surroundings, context, or place; either physical or conceptual. Used when defining the type and intent of non -primary treatment in relation to the primary treatment. Subject A participant in a study. TAUG Therapeutic Area User Guide TAUG -BrCa Therapeutic Area User Guide Data Standards for Breast Cancer . This document. TNM A system for classifying stages of cancer based on assessments of the primary tumor, regional lymph nodes, and distant metastases. T, N, and M stand for tumor, node, and metastases, respectively. UICC Union for International Cancer Control UML Unified Modeling Language