CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 28 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional • Bone -directed therap ies strengthen the bones and help reduce the risk of problems arising from bone metastases.24 Local Treatments • Radiation therapy destroys the genetic material in a cell that controls how it grows and divides.25 It is commonly given following surgery . Sometimes it is considered to be part of the primary therapy ; sometimes, adjuvant therapy. • Surgery prevents (or greatly reduces) the spread of cancer by removing the cancerous tissue from the body. The excised , or resected, tissue is then available as a specimen for further study. Studies involving subjects with breast cancer may collect data about surgical procedures such as biops ies, dissection s, lumpectom ies, mastectom ies or further surgical interventions. In these studies, the procedure details , including procedure type/intention, date/time , and anatomic location , will often be collected. Data collection may also include location laterality, operative conditions/procedures, traci ng-agent administ ration, surgical findings, and/ or gross evidence of tumor(s). For further information about breast cancer surgical procedure types, see the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer at http://www.nccn.org . 4.1.1 Examples for Treatments Studies may allow specific concomitant palliative cancer treatments. Additionally , after the study treatment is discontinued, sponsors may collect the subsequent cancer therapies given to the subject. All of these cancer therapies are reported in the CM or PR domain in SDTM, while the actual study treatment is represented in the Exposure (EC/EX) domain s. See also Section 3.4.1 for examples of prior treatments. Example 1 In this example, s ubject ABC- 1001 undergoes a lumpectomy /partial mastectomy , which result s in a measurable tumor sample (see Section 3.3.1 , Example 2 ). Subject ABC- 1002 has a n axillary lymph node dissection. This example shows how to represent location of surgery when tissue is excised from a single anatomical location or from multiple locations. These procedures are represented in the Procedures (PR) domain. The reason for performing them is represented using an NSV. Row 1: Shows subject ABC -1001 ’s lumpectomy. Note that PRREFID has been populated , which allowed findings from this specimen to be linked to this procedure record . RELREC (given below) , shows that the related record(s) are in the TU and T R domain s. Row 2: Shows subject ABC -1002 ’s node dissection. Because lymph nodes were remov ed from both levels I and II, PRLOC is MULTIPLE and the two locations are given as NSVs . pr.xpt Row STUDYID DOMAIN USUBJID PRSEQ PRREFID PRTRT PRLOC PRLAT PRSTDTC TRTINT PRLOC1 PRLOC2 1 ABC PR ABC - 1001 1 1001- T01 LUMPECTOMY / PARTIAL MASTECTOMY BREAST LEFT 2014- 04-15 CURATIVE 2 ABC PR ABC - 1002 1 NODE DISSECTION MULTIPLE RIGHT 2014- 04-15 AXILLARY LYMPH NODE LEVEL I AXILLARY LYMPH NODE LEVEL II Variable -level metadata for the NSVs, from the define.xml file that would accompany submission, are given in tabulated form below. As in Section 3.4.1 Example 1, the “Codelist” column holds the name of the codelist to which the variable refers .