CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 30 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional these drugs . For patients with prior or ongoing exposure to drugs with cardiotoxicity, studies may include cardiac safety assessments. A ssessments such as echocardiograms are not covered in this document, but are expected to be covered by a futu re TAUG for cardiac imaging. Examples of therapeutics relevant to breast cancer associated with cardiotoxicity include the following:26 Agent Cardiotoxicity Anthracyclines and anthraquinones Congestive heart failure, left ventricular dysfunction, acute myocarditis, arrhythmia Capecitabine, 5 -fluorouracil Ischemia, pericarditis, congestive heart failure, cardiogenic shock Paclitaxel, vinca alkaloids Sinus bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, atrioventricular block, hypotension, congestive heart failure, ischemia Cyclophosphamide Neurohumoral activation, mitral regurgitation Trastuzumab Arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, angioede ma, left ventricular dysfunction Bevacizumab Hypertension, thromboembolism, bleeding Thorax irradiation Myocardial fibrosis, valvular heart disease, left ventricular dysfunction 4.2 Tumor Identification, Assessment , and Disease Response General guidance on managing data pertaining to the identification, monitoring, and assessment of tumors and lesions is cover ed by three SDTMIG Findings domains: Tumor Identification (TU), Tumor Results (TR), and Disease Response (RS). Please consult SDTMI G v3.2 for specifications, assumptions, and some examples for these domain models. Two more SDTM -based data examples and an example CRF in three parts relating to Tumor Identification and one CRF relating to Tumor Response are given on the following page s. 4.2.1 Examples for Tumor Identification and Assessment The example CRFs on the following pages are intended to go with the example datasets in this section. This TAUG illustrates creating a separate CRF for each tumor type classified by the response criteria (i.e., a CRF for Target Lesion, a CRF for Non -Target Lesion, and a CRF for New Lesion). There are several valid ways in which sponsors capture baseline and post -baseline tumor information, depending on the clinical database system. Many sponsors use a si ngle form, displaying the relevant questions according to the visits using dynamics. The example CRFs in this TAUG reflect this database build option. Other sponsors devise rules to automatically move identifier information gathered at the screening/baseli ne visit into the proper post -baseline results forms. Others create two separate forms: one for screening/baseline tumor identification and another for post -baseline visits tumor results . For post -baseline visits, Tumor Result CRF(s) and Disease Response CRF (s) are generally presented together. Any of these strategies is an acceptable deployment approach . TULNKID and TRLNKID variables are used to provide a unique code for each identified tumor in order to link records across related domains (TU and TR). TUL NKID and TRLNKID are expected to be the same for the same tumor across datasets.