CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 48 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional same analysis , it is also possible to handle PDs found following missed or delayed assessment visits by backdating the PD to an earlier protocol -scheduled assessment visit date. These modifications to the endpoint derivation are usually performed for sensitivity analyses to support the primary PFS analysis. 5.1.1.1.2 Modifications of Endpoint Derivation for Sensitivity Analyses The derivation of PFS can involve a number of decisions regarding issues such as data source (central review, local site, recalcul ated), event definition (include/exclude clinical progressions), derivation of event date, presence of missing assessments, etc. The usual approach is to decide upfront on the most appropriate options for the single primary analysis. However, to show the r obustness of the primary analysis to some of the key assumptions, one or more sensitivity analyses are sometimes employed. When multiple approaches for defining PFS are used within one study, the supporting ADaM dataset would use separate PARAM and PARAMCD values to uniquely identify each of these parameter derivations. 5.1.1.2 Overall Survival – (OS) Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomization (randomized trials) or the date of first dose (non- randomized trials) until the date of death from any cause. Subjects who are alive or lost to follow -up at the analysis are censored at the last known alive date. When an analysis cutoff date is implemented, only deaths occurring on or prior to the cutoff date are counted as OS events. Subjects with death or last known alive date after the analysis cutoff date will be censored at the analysis cutoff date. The same considerations for OS in breast cancer apply as in virtually all other oncology indications. The death event can be considered a hard endpoint, in that it is unusual for the timing of the death to be in question. Similarly, for patients without a death, the “alive” status is usually not in question , but it will rely on collection of the appropriate data to properly document the last time the patient was known to be alive ( e.g., the last contact date). As with other time-to-event endpoints , the OS time variable also require s a censoring variable in order to analyze the endpoint using time-to-event methods. 5.1.1.2.1 Derivation Considerations Start of Observation Period for Analysis For randomized studies , the usual start date for the OS calculation is the date of randomization. For non -randomized studies (and in particular , single -arm studies) , the start date of therapy is usually employed for the d erivation. Occasionally (e.g., for registry type studies, or perhaps where one arm does not have an interventional therapy ), an alternative start date , such as date of original diagnosis and/or date of qualification for including subject into the study , may be used. For any specific study , OS is analyzed based on a particular observation period start date and sensitivity analyses using additional observation period start dates are not normally required. Date of Death or Last Contact Date The date of death is recorded on the case report forms and can usually be relied upon to be correct. For patients who did not die, the last known alive date needs to be derived from the existing data collected in the study. This can come either from a specific survival follow -up form in the survival follow -up phase or from other data that indicate the last date when the patient was known to be alive. The fact that a patient is alive while on treatment is often not collected specifically , but is inferred from the other data collected. However, for patien ts dying during this main study period , the death information is collected . Following withdrawal of therapy and/or other follow -up assessments, the survival status and any death information for each patient may be collected in a survival follow -up period.