CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 65 Provisional May 16, 2016 Patients with locally advanced breast cancer (Stage III except for T3N1M0) have advanced breast cancer confined to the breast and regional lymph nodes.31 Standard neoadjuvant therapy in patients with inoperable, non -inflammatory , locally advanced breast cancer includes the use of anthracycline- based che motherapy , with or without a taxane.32 In patients achieving a clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, local therapy options include total mastectomy with level I/II axillary node dissection or lumpectomy with level I/II axillary node dissection , along with radiation therapy (including the supraclavicular and infraclavicular and/or internal mammary nodes and the chest wall). 31 Radiation therapy may also be given palliatively in patients not achieving a response to preoperative systemic therapy. Adjuvant therapy in patients with locally advanced breast cancer includes additional chemotherapy, endocrine therapy (in patients with ER -positive tumors) , and/or targeted therapy (in patients with HER2 -positive breast cancer). Inflammatory breast cancer is rare and presents with erythema and de rmal edema ( peau d’orange ) of the breast . It affects one third or more of the breast skin and is generally characterized as locally advanced. Inflammatory breast cancer is often ER -negative , but may be HER2 -positive. The management of inflammatory breast c ancer typically comprises neoadjuvant chemotherapy and targeted therapy (e.g., trastuzumab in HER2 -positive disease and hormone therapy in ER -positive disease) followed by mastectomy with level I/II axillary lymph node dissection and radiation therapy. Paget’s disease is another rare form of breast cancer characterized by neoplastic cells in the nipple- areolar complex (NAC) that is often associated with primary breast cancer (either DCIS or invasive cancer) somewhere else in the breast. Primary therapy commonly consists of total mastectomy with axillary dissection or breast breast -conserving surgery with NAC resection , followed by whole breast irradiation. Regardless of the presence of an associated breast tumor in Paget’s disease, the NAC is surgically rem oved with a negative margin of underlying breast tissue. Staging of the axillary lymph nodes is performed in patients with invasive breast cancer and may also be performed in patients with underlying DCIS. Systemic treatment is based on the staging and bio logical characteristics of the underlying tumor . For patients with metastatic or recurrent breast cancer, disease management consists of palliative therapy and extension of overall survival. Surgery may have a role if complete local clearance of tumor can be achieved and other sites of disease are not immediately life threatening or for palliative care of a distant metastasis (where clinically indicated). Patients with bone metastases may undergo therapy with a bisphosphonate to prevent skeletal - related ev ents (e.g., bone fractures, bone pain requiring radiation therapy, spinal cord compression, and hypercalcemia). Patients with ER- or PgR -positive breast cancer may receive endocrine therapy as initial therapy. Patients with HER2 -positive breast cancer may receive a HER2 -targeted agent such as trastuzumab and/or pertuzumab. Cytotoxic chemotherapy has a role in patients with hormone -negative tumors not localized to bone or soft tissue, those with symptomatic visceral metastases (regardless of hormone receptor status), and those with hormone -receptor -positive tumors refractory to endocrine therapy. The use of chemotherapy when not likely to provide an overall survival benefit must be balanced against its negative effects on quality of life. Radiation therapy has a role in the management of local or regional recurrence of breast cancer and in the palliative care of distant metastases. 32 Appendix F: References Appendix F1: Works Cited 1. Jemal A, Bray F, Center MM, Ferlay J, Ward E, Forman D. Global cancer statistics. CA Cancer J Clin . 2011;61(2):69 -90. doi:10.3322/caac.20107. 2. American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts & Figures 2015 . Atlanta, GA: American Cancer Society; 2015. 3. American Cancer Society. Breast Cancer Facts & Figures 2013 -2014. Atlanta, GA: American Cancer Society; 2013. 4. Fabbri A, Carcangiu ML, Carbone A. Histological Classification of Breast Cancer. In: Bombardie ri E, Bonadonna G, Gianni L, eds. Breast Cancer: Nuclear Medicine in Diagnosis and Therapeutic Options . Berlin ; New York: Springer; 2008.