CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 7 Provisional May 16, 2016 1.6 Known Issues • A number of CRFs were proposed for this document, but have been deferred to a later version due to unresolved modeling issues. These include staging, pathology/histology, prior antineoplastic therapy, and infusion drugs (both as concomitant /prior medicatio n and as study treatment). • In this document, the abbreviation “PR” sometimes stands for the “Procedures ” domain, sometimes for “progesterone receptor ,” and sometimes for “partial response. ” The reader is cautioned to consider the context when i nterpreting these abbreviations. • Non-Standard Vari ables: This document has adopted the practices outlined in the proposed SDTMIG Section 8.4.4, Alternative Representation of Non -Standard Variables (also called the NSV Proposal; it was circulated for public review as part of SDTMIG v3.3 Batch 2). Accordingly, SDTM -based examples containing sample data requiring the use of a variable outside the standard set of variables included in the SDTM v1.4 are represented not with Supplemental Qualifier records , but with non -standard variables (NSVs) appended to the end of the parent domain, followed by sample value -level metadata for the NSVs. In order to avoid confusion between standard variables and NSVs, NSVs have been rendered visually distinct, as shown bel ow, with white text on black in the header row, and separated from the standard variables by a small space. Figure 2: Visual Presentatio n of Non -Standard Variables in T his Document A list of all NSVs used in this document, and th e variable -level metadata that might become normative for the NSVs should they be promoted to standard variables, is given in Appendix D . • Treatment Regimens: The strategy used to treat breast cancer is often a “regimen” that may consist of multiple drugs or of drug treatment combined with radiation and/or surgery. o The SDTMIG does not give clear guidance on how to indicate that multiple treatments comprise a regimen. In this document, the relationship among drug treatments given together and considered to be part of a regimen has been represented by assigning a common value of the variable -- GRPID (e.g., CMGRPID) to components of the treatment regimen. This solution does not address grouping drug treatments with radiation or surgical treatments, since the latter would be represented in a different domain (PR) than the drug treatments. A currently available solution is to use the Related Records ( RELREC ) dataset to group all the component treatments. A new solution to indicate th at interventions are part of a regimen is under discussion. o Breast cancer studies may collect regimen -level data, such as best response to the regimen. An SDTM structure for linking such data to a regimen, rather than to individual treatments in the regime n, has not yet been devised. • Radiation Location Category: Radiation therapy interventions can be characterized based on the subject’s disease process and corresponding treatment strategy (i.e. , targeted radiation vs. whole body). While “Anatomical Locatio n” provides precise location(s), “Radiation Location Category” describes the clinical classification of the location as it relates to the subject’s disease. “Local” is defined as radiation treatment restricted to the site of cancer origin. “Regional” is defined as radiation targeting disease that has extended beyond the local site, spreading to adjacent tissues and/or regional lymph nodes. “Distant” is defined as radiation targeting cancer cells that have spread from the site of the primary tumor to distant organs/lymph nodes. This issue was addressed in the TAUG by using the non-standard variable PRRRLTLC to capture this information in addition to the anatomical location (PRLOC) variable. • Line of T herapy : Due to the complexity of defining a standard definition and representation in SDTM, line of therapy for prior/on -study medications will not be addressed in this version of the TAUG. H owever , this topic will be revisited for discussion and considered for future versions. • Method of Scoring : In Section 3.3.1 Example 1 , controlled terminology has been developed for scoring systems such as Allred, H -score , and Remmele score . SDTM examples showing these scoring systems is planned for a future version of this user guide • Best Overall Response : There are planned discussions on the modeling of this variable. The user is cautioned that this , therefore , may be subject to change.