CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 4 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional 1 Introduction This Therapeutic Area Data Standards User Guide for Breast Cancer (TAUG -BrCa ) was developed under the Coalition for Accelerating Standards and Therapies (CFAST ) initiative . CFAST, a joint initiative of the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium ( CDISC ) and the Critical Path Institute (C- Path), was launched to accelerate clinical research and medical product development by facilitating the establishment and maintenance of data standards, tools, and methods for conducting research in therapeutic areas important to public health. CFAST partners include TransCelerate BioPharma Inc. (TCB), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National Cancer I nstitute Enterprise Vocabulary Services ( NCI EVS ), with participation and input from many other organizations. See http://www.cdisc.org/cfast -0 for a list of CFAST participating organizations. CDISC has developed industry- wide data standards enabling the harmonization of clinical data and streamlining research processes from protocol (study plan) through analysis and reporting, including the use of electronic health records to facilitate study recruitment , study conduct, and the collection of high quality research data. CDISC standards, implementations , and innovations can improve the time/cost/quality ratio of medical research, to speed the development of safer and more effective medical products and enab le a learning healthcare system. The goal of the CFAST initiative is to identify a core set of clinical therapeutic area biomedical concepts and endpoints for targeted therapeutic areas and translate them into CDISC standards to improve semantic understa nding, support data sharing , and facilitate global regulatory submission. 1.1 Purpose The purpose of this TAUG -BrCa is to describe how to use CDISC standards to represent data pertaining to breast cancer studies. The focus of this version 1.0 (v1.0) o f the TAUG -BrCa is on clinical trials of drugs to treat invasive breast cancer in neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and metastatic settings . See Appendix A for the project proposal that was approved by the CFAST Steering Committee. The TAUG -BrCa v1.0 provides advice and examples for Clinical Data Acquisition Standards Harmonization (CDASH), submission data based on the Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) , and the Analysis Data Model (ADaM), including: • Sample case report forms (CR Fs) compliant with CDASH, annotated with CDASH and SDTM variables • CDASH metadata for the sample CRFs (included in the CDASH Metadata folder of the posting package ) • Guidance on which domain models and datasets from the SDTM Implementation Guide for Human Clinical Trials (SDTMIG) to use in representing collected data • Examples of SDTM datasets, with text describing the situational context and pointing out records of note • Cross -implementation variable definition metadata for non -standard ( Supplemental Qualifier ) variables used in example SDTM datasets and/or CRF mapping annotations • Analysis datasets compliant with ADaM, with dataset - and variable -level metadata • Table shells illustrating some kinds of statistical analysis that can be represented in the ADaM datasets CDISC standards are freely available at www.cdisc.org . It is recommended that implementers consult the foundational standards prior to implementing these breast cancer clinical data standards. This TAUG -BrCa v1.0 describes common kinds of data needed for breast cancer studies, so that those handling the data ( e.g., data managers, statisticians, programmers ) understand the data and can apply standards appropriately. These d escriptions include the clinical situations from which the data arise, and the reasons these data are relevant for breast cancer . The TAUG -BrCa v1.0 strives to define biomedical concepts unambiguously, so that consistent terminology can be used in breast cancer studie s to enable aggregation and comparison of data a cross studies and drug programs, and so that metadata for these biomedical concepts can likewise be defined.