CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 16 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional Common Test Name (Abbreviation) Description Lymph Node Status Indicates whether cancer is present in a lymph node. Number of Lymph Nodes Positive The number of lymph nodes (out of those examined) in which cancer was found. More positive lymph nodes are associated with a worse prognosis and the number of positive lymph nodes is a factor in the staging of the cancer.8 Size of Largest Lymph Node Metastasis The longest diameter of the largest lymph node in which cancer was found. One of the parameters used in calculating the resid ual cancer burden (see below). Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) The amount of cancer left after neoadjuvant therapy, as measured by pathologic assessment of the tissue(s) removed at surgery. The residual cancer burden is calculated using the following parameters: primary tumor bed area, in situ percentage, cellularity, number of positive lymph nodes, and diameter of largest positive node. The pathologist states the above facts in the path ology report , and who ever calculates the residual cancer burden can easily do so using the established formula .14 The formula produces a continuous index (RCB Index), which is associated with a qualitative category (RCB Class). The RCB Class is scored from 0 to III, with RCB- 0 representing complete pathologic response and RCB -III representing extensive residual diseas e. The RCB Index can be used as a predictor of distant relapse.14 Terms and descriptions in this table were informed by contributions from CFAST membership organizations and by the NCI EVS . The followi ng table lists primary tumor grade assessments related to breast cancer . Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list bu t deta ils the more common assessments . Table 3.3.3: Primary Tumor Grade Assessments Common Test Name (Abbreviation ) Description Invasive Carcinoma Grade The degree of abnormality of tumor cells. Grading is a histopathologic finding that is determined from the evaluation of the tubule formation , nuclear pleomorphism, and mitotic count . At present, the most common system is the Nottingham grading system , also called the Elston -Ellis modification of the Scarff -Bloom -Richardson grading system.6,9,15 The grade of a tumor represents its aggressive potential, with a lower grade being more favorable. It may be used to plan treatment and estimate the future course, outcome, and overall prognosis of disease. The following details of the assessment that determines invasive carc inoma grade may be collected. Tubule Formation A comparison between the structures formed by the tumor cells as opposed to those formed by normal cells; how much the tumor tissue resembles healthy mammary glands. Scored from 1 to 3, with 1 being the most normal and 3 the most abnormal. Nuclear Pleomorphism How large and varied the nuclei of the tumor cells are. Scored from 1 to 3, with 1 being the least amount of pleomorphism and 3 the most. Mitotic Count How fast the tumor cells are growing and dividing, as determined by the number of mitoti c cells present. Also scored from 1 to 3; a higher mitotic count results in a higher score. Total Score Graded from 1 to 3. The sum of the tubule formation , nuclear pleomorphism, and mitotic count scores. It ranges from 3 to 9. A total score of 3 -5 is d esignated as grade 1; 6 -7 is grade 2; 8 -9 is grade 3. Ductal Carcinoma In Situ Grade ( DCIS Grade ) The degree of abnormality of ductal breast carcinoma in situ. Higher grade DCIS has a worse prognosis.