CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 5 Provisional May 16, 2016 A biomedical concept is a unit of knowledge created by a unique combination of the characteristic s that define observations of real wo rld clinical research phenomena. A biomedical concept represents healthcare and/or clinical research knowledge that borrows from medical knowledge, statistical knowledge, Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group ( BRIDG ). Metadata for biomedical concepts include the properties of the data items that are part s of the biomedical concept s, controlled terminology for those data items, and the ways in which the biomedical concepts relate to each other . Biomedical concepts covered in this guide were selected from concepts identified by one or more stakeholders as important, which were not addressed or not completely addressed by existing CDISC implementation guides. T his user guide does not provide guidance on what data is needed for regulatory submission or approval; it only provides advice on how to represent data in a standard form. To reiterate: It is important to note that the choice of biomedical concepts included in this user guide is not intended to influence sp onsor decisions as to what data to collect. The examples included are intended to show how particular kinds of data can be represented using CDISC standards. This user guide emphasizes that examples are only examples and should not be over -interpreted . For guidance on the selection of biomedical concepts and endpoints, please refer to the appropriate clinic al and regulatory authorities. Clinical guidelines, articles, and other works consulted by the team during the creation of this document are referenced where appropriate, using the American Medical Association (AMA) style for citation. For a full list of references, see Appendix F . 1.2 Organization of this Document The organization of this document differs slightly from other T AUGs in that the management of the disease is included in the same section as disease assessments, as opposed to being touched upon briefly as part of routinely collected data. Th is document is therefore divided into the following sections: • Section 1, Introduction , provides an overall introduction to the purpose and goals of the Breast Cancer project . • Section 2, Overview of Breast Cancer , provides an overview of the Breast Cancer Therapeutic Area in terms of Intent, Settings , and Endpoints • Section 3, Subjec t and Disease Characteristics , covers data that are usually collected once at the beginning of a study. • Section 4, Disease Management and Assessments , covers data related to the ongoing treatment of breast cancer , and data that are used to evaluate disease severity, control, or progression. These are usually collected repeatedly during a study, and may be used as or for the derivation of efficacy and/or safety endpoints. • Section 5, Analysis Data , includes key data analysis biomedical concepts for a breast cancer study. • Appendices provide additional background material and describe oth er supplemental material relevant to breast cancer . 1.3 Concept Maps This document uses concept maps to explain clinical processes and biomedical concepts. Concept maps, also sometimes called mind maps, are diagrams that include “bubbles” representing concepts/ideas/things and labeled arrows that represent the relationships between the concepts/ideas/things. They are generally easier to draw and more accessible than more formal modeling diagrams, such as Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams. The di agrams in this document use the following coding for classification of concepts :