CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 49 Provisional May 16, 2016 Interventions In comparison to the PFS endpoint, for OS there is often less need to take account of specific interventions occurring while a patient is still alive. The ITT principle is often adhered to quite closely , since it is anticipated that once the patient is off study , various factors will affect the risk of death , including additional alternative anti -cancer therapies. Nevertheless, there sometimes may be a need to perform sensit ivity analyses to evaluate the robustness of the main analysis (e.g., if a number of patients switched to the therapy in the alternative treatment arm as a major deviation from protocol , one type of sensitivity analysis might be to censor the OS endpoint a t time of crossover ). Missing Visits Incomplete survival follow -up due to missed visits can be an issue for the OS analysis , especially if this differs between treatment groups. For example, if investigators do not diligently follow up with the patients on one treatment , this can lead to biased survival estimates and analysis results . 5.1.1.2.2 Modifications of Endpoint Derivation for Sensitivity Analyses The complexity of the OS endpoint derivation is much reduced in terms of the number of factors to consider , compared with the PFS endpoint. Because of this, and the fact that there is often greater focus on an ITT approach for this endpoint, the need for sensitivity analyses involving changes to OS duration or censoring variable is much reduced, althoug h some m ay be considered. 5.1.1.2.3 Other Relevant Supportive Analyses A summary giving the reasons for censoring can be a useful supplement to the main OS analyses. If there are a large number censored due to loss to follow -up, particularly in one group compared to the other, then care is needed in the interpretation of the endpoint and further analysis is suggested. 5.1.1.3 Event -free Survival – (EFS) In a neoadjuvant setting, the purpose of event -free survival is to describe what happens to the disease while the subject is being treated. The calculation of EFS is define d as the length of time from a start date until either death or until progression of the disease occurs that precludes surgery , including both local and distant recurrence. The method for determining event -free s urvival is similar to that for determining progression -free survival in Section 5.1.1.1 above. The same rules for determining the start date apply. For determining the date of the event, the date of death and either the local or distant re currence of the disease are the same as PFS, the one difference being that progression of disease prior to surgery should be included in EFS. 5.1.1.4 Disease- free Survival – (DFS ) In an adjuvant setting, the purpose of disease -free survival is to assess survival in the context of disease recurrence foll owing removal of the primary tumor and affected lymph nodes. This can also be referred to as relapse -free survival or RFS. The calculation of DFS is the length of time from a start date until the patient survives without any evidence of disease recurrence or death. The method for determining disease- free survival is similar to that for determining progression- free survival in Section 5.1.1.1 above. The same rules for determining the start date apply. For determining the date of the event , either the date of death or the date on which any disease recurrence is detected is used. No interventions should be used to in determining DFS.