CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 52 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional 5.3 Analysis Data sets The following sections illustrates the use of the ADaM model to create datasets designed to support analyses of the analysis endpoints discussed above. In practice, the first step toward developing the content of an analysis dataset is to review the types of analyses specified in the statistical analysis plan and presented in mock table shells. The two examples of table shells shown above provide the target for the type of analyses the datasets need to support. Because of space limitation s, only key variabl es are shown below but typically many other variables as descri bed in the ADaM IG would be present in an analysis dataset that follow the ADaM principles. An abbreviated subject- level analysis dataset (ADSL) is shown that contains sponsor -defined variable s that would be of typical importance to many breast cancer trials. A series of ADaM datasets, including an intermedia te dataset, is then presented. The purpose of the intermediate dataset is to collate all of the data that are important for the der ivation of primary endpoints. This intermediate dataset is used as input for the development of the analysis dataset that supports the creatio n of the statistical analyses. The primary reason for the creation of an intermediate dataset is to suppor t traceability. An alternate approach that uses standalone dataset s, which contain more v ariables and robust metadata, could equally support traceability. As is the case for any ADaM implementation, it is left up to the producer to decide the best process that will fulfi ll the principles of clear c ommunication and traceability. This section is not intended to illustrate every possible variable that might be included in analysis datasets created for st atistical analysis of breast cancer endpoints. Additionally, the examples are intended to be descriptive and illustrative of the use of the ADaM model and should not be interpreted as the complete analysis requirements for cancer trials. The metadata and derivations presented are for illustr ative purposes only and are not meant to imply a universally accepted definition or derivation of the variables. The examples should not be viewed as a statement of the standard themselves , but rather as an example of the application of the ADaM standard t o the development of analysis -ready datasets 5.3.1 Subject -Level The Subject- Level Analysis Dataset (ADSL) should be created following the examples described in the ADaM Implementation Guide. The ADaM IG provides a complete description of required and permissibl e variables that would appear in ADSL, such as population flags, treatment variables, and other important subjec t level disposition variables. The table below provides discussion on var iables that would be of importance for inclusion in a typical ADSL created for BrCa trials. ADSL Variable Metadata – One record per subject Variable Name Variable Label Type Codelist/Controlled Terms Notes STAGE Stage of Cancer Char This is the stage of cancer that the patient was assessed with at the point of inclusion in the study. Stage is normally captured in an SDTM domain. Guidance on the specific domain will be given in a future version of the TAUG . The codelist can be custom codelist that reflects what is in the SDTM domain. It can have as its controlled terminology ‘STAGE 1 ,’ ‘STAGE 2 ,’ ‘STAGE 3 ,’ ‘STAGE 4,’ or it can use the TNM classification (‘T, ’ ‘N,’ ‘M’) or a combination of the two. HISTOLGY Histopathology Char Histology of the tumor is normally captured in the MI domain. TRTPREDT Prior Treatment End Date Num If a patient has had prior cancer treatment, the date that the last treatment ended is capture d. For example, latest CM.CMENDTC where CM.CMCAT = ‘ANTINEOPLASTIC THERAPY’ or latest PR.PRENDTC where PR.PRCAT = ‘RADIATION THERAPY’ where –DTC variables ar e converted to numeric date format.