CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 18 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional Gene Expression Profile A gene expression assay that analyzes a specific panel of genes to estimate risk of metastasis/recurrence in early -stage breast cancer, such as Oncotype DX® and MammaPrint®. The reported result is a calculated score and/or category ( e.g., low-risk, high - risk) formulated from the degree of over - or under -expression for each individual gene, and may impact treatment decisions and survival expectancies. Terms and descriptions in this table were informed by contributions from CFAST membership organizations and by the NCI EVS . Users should refer to the SDTMIG -PGx for information on modeling this type of data, including any Next -Generation Sequencing. The foll owing table contains diagnostic terms derived from conventional light microscopic examination of the tissues. Please note that the following table is not an exhaustive list but details the more common types. Table 3.3.6: Histologic/Morphologic /Molecular Types of Breast Cancer Common Name (Abbreviation) Description Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) A carcinoma entirely confined to the mammary ducts, with no evidence of invasion of the basement membrane. Also called intraductal carcinoma. Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (LCIS) An adenocarcinoma entirely confined to the mammary lobules and characterized by a proliferation of monomorphic cells completely filling the lumina. The overall lobular architecture is preserved. LCIS is frequently multifocal (90% in some series) and bilateral. It rarely becomes invasive , but having LCIS in one breast increases the risk of developing invasive cancer in the other breast. Invasive Carcinoma A carcinoma that is not confined to the epithelium and has spread to the surrounding stroma. Invasive cancer contrasts with in situ cancer, which is confined to the st ructure in which it originated ( see DCIS and LCIS above) . Invasive cancer has a worse prognosis than in situ cancer. Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma A rare carcinoma that usually arises in the salivary glands, or a carcinoma in which cells bear a strong histologic resemblance to tissue belonging to the salivary glands. Adenoid cystic carcinomas spread along nerve sheath s, resulting in severe pain, and they tend to recur. Lymph node metastases are unusual; hematogenous tumor spread is characteristic. Apocrine Carcinoma A carcinoma in which more than 90% of the malignant cells show apocrine differentiation. It originates in the sweat glands of the breast. There is no statistical difference in prognosis compared with non -apocrine breast carcinomas. Basal -Like Breast Cancer (BLBC) A carcinoma of the breast in which the cells bear histologic resemblance to the basal cells, which are found in the lower part of the epidermis. BLBC tumors account for 50% to 80% of triple -negative breast cancer (cancers that test negative for estrogen receptors (ER -) and progesterone receptors (PR -) and HER2 (HER2 -));19 however, not all BLBCs are triple negative, and not all triple -negative tumors are BLBC. HER2 -Enriched A biologic subset of breast carcinoma types defined by high expression of HER2, GRB7, and TRAP100, and by the lack of expression of estrogen receptor (ER) . [NCI]