CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 50 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional 5.1.1.5 Duration of Response – (DOR) The duration of overall response (DOR) is measured from the time that RECIST criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), dependin g on the definition within the specific analysis plan, until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. It is limited to subjects who have achieved either PR or CR during the course of treatment. In evaluating duration of response , there are also some variations that are used. These incl ude duration of over all complete response , which only analyzes subjects who achieve d complete response, and duration of stable diseas e, which analyzes when a subject achieves either complete response, partial response, or stable disease. In both cases, the timing ends at the point a subject ’s disease progresses . 5.1.1.5.1 Derivation Considerations Start of Observation Period for Analysis The observation period start date for duration of response is calculated for each subject as the date on which that subject achieves either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) after the start of the study. If subject s do not achieve either CR or PR, then they will not be included in the duration of re sponse calculation. The date for the start of CR and PR may also differ from the date of best overall response if a subject achieves a partial response reading followed by a complete response. 5.1.2 Response Endpoints 5.1.2.1 Best Overall Response – (BOR) Best overall response (BOR) is defined as the best response recorded from the start of the trial, normally the date of randomization, until disease progression occurs, evidenced by either RECIST assessment or death , or the patient discontinues treatment. When performing this analysis, the ran king for best respons e is considered to be complete respo nse (CR), partial res ponse (PR), stable dis ease (SD) /( Non Complete Response/Non Progressive Disease ( NON -CR/NON -PD) for non -measurable disease) , and progressive di sease (PD) , in that order. Best overall response can be calculated either for the entire time a subject was on the trial or for a specific period of time, such as a combination therapy followed by maintenance therapy. Unlike the survival analysis, the BOR analysis i s based only on assessments until progressive disease is assessed. For that reason, considerations for missing visits are not generally taken into account. For assessment, the BOR is analyzed by populations achieving each of the RECIST categories du ring th e clinical trial period.