CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0) © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved Page 47 Provisional May 16, 2016 Interventions dependent on disease state (usually indicating disease worsening) Sometimes the worsening of disease might not be captured and documented via a PD response according to RECIST , but the investigator might with draw the patient from treatment and from further follow -up because of clinical signs and symptoms , i.e., clinical progression . The patient could be censored according to the RECIST radiologic PFS definition, but since they were withdrawn from treatment or study due to reasons related to change in disease status prior to radiologic documentation, a routine censoring algorithm may result in biased estimates. This situation is described as informative censoring and therefore sensitivity analys es may be conducted. T hese sensitivity analyses might include the imputation of best or worst case scenarios or other imputation techniques for missing data . If another anti -cancer therapy is given during the trial before documented progression indicat es a worsening of disease, then the impact on the PFS endpoint derivation and the subsequent analysis should be considered. For example, although the primary analysis still might need to be censor ed at the last non -PD assessment prior to the alternative therapy, sensitivity analyses might look at alternative derivations (e.g., handling the therapy as an event or i gnoring the therapy completely (assuming additional response follow -up beyond the start of this therapy )). Other Interventions There may be other factors not necessarily connected to the disease that might impact the PFS endpoint (e.g., during the study an incorrect dose is given to the patient , or there is a problem with the randomization so that the alternative treatment from the other arm is received ). In these cases , one could simply ignore these interventions as part of an ITT (Intent to Treat) approach , or alternative approaches might be considered (e.g., censoring at the last response assessment prior to intervention as part of a per -protocol evaluation) . Missing or Unscheduled Assessments Missing Assessments The absence of data use d to determine a missing response can either arise because the assessment visit itself has been missed or delayed , or because of an UNK response was recorded at the assessment (which would effectively be ignored in the analysis ). For PFS, only assessments missing after the last non -PD assessment are of direct concern, and in particular when the missing asse ssment lead s to a large gap between the last non -PD assessment and an observed PFS event. It could be argued that the event might have been observed earlier had assessments not been missing. When a relatively large percentage of patients in a study have missing assessments prior to events , this can lead to concerns that the PFS estimates are inflated . If the degree of missing assessments is imbalanced between treatment groups, the analysis of treatment effects can be biased. Therefore, rather than ignore this issue, various rules can be employed to cope with missing assessments. For example, patients with two or more missing visits prior to a PFS event may be censored at the last adequate assessment prior to the missing visit . Alternati vely, for a type of “worst case” analysis, a PFS event could be assigned at the next protocol -scheduled assessment after the last non -PD evaluation. Unscheduled Assessments Another possible source of bias can occur when there are unscheduled assessments prior to a protocol -scheduled visit. For example, this may occur if a subject has worsening of clinical symptoms that are related to the disease and scans are taken earlier to check for possible progression. Although the data arising from this kind of sce nario can be handled by the type of statistical method chosen (such as interval censoring), another way is to address this problem within the PFS endpoint derivation by assign ing any PDs found at early unscheduled visits to the next scheduled assessment. W ithin the