CDISC Therapeutic Area Data Standards: User Guide for Breast Cancer (Version 1.0 Provisional) Page 46 © 2016 Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium, Inc. All rights reserved May 16, 2016 Provisional the individual tumor data and/or intermediate components of overall response ( e.g., non-target lesion response, new lesions) may be collected at these as sessment visits. Determination of progression may be made by the investigator at the local site, an independent central review process , or derived from the raw tumor data (from local site and/or central review) via a programming algorithm. Usually one of these is regarded as the primary data source for analysis , with one or more of the alternative data sources used for sensitivity analyses. 5.1.1.1.1 Derivation Considerations Start of Observation Period for Analysis For randomized studies , the usual start date for the PFS calculation is the date of randomization. For non -randomized studies (and , in particular , single -arm studies) , the usual start date for the PFS calculation is the start date of therapy. Occasionally (e.g., for registry typ e studies, or perhaps where one arm does not have an interventional therapy) an alternative start date , such as date of original diagnosis , may be used. For any specific study , PFS is analyzed based on an observation period start date ; sensitivity analyses using additional observation period start dates are not normally required. Date of Event or Censoring The exact date of progression according to a RECIST response evaluation may not always be straightforward , since scans and evaluations of different regions may be performed on separate days and may even be on a different day to the patient assessment visit. Often a rule is employed to derive the date of progression , such as earliest scan or evaluation date used to derive the overall response evaluation of PD for that visit . Patients without progression or death are normally censored at the last date of adequate radiologic assessment. An adequate radiologic assessment is normally a visit in which the subject is evaluated for disease progression , and it may occur prior to subject withdrawal from the study . Usually , evidence of non -progression would require a stable disease classification or better. Typical censoring rules for PFS: • Subjects who started new anti -cancer therapy prior to documented PD or death will be censored at the last radiological assessment prior to initiation of new anti -cancer therapy; • Subjects who did not have PD or death will be censored at the last radiologic al assessment; • Subjects who had PD or death after missing two or more consecutive scheduled radiological assessments will be censored at the last prior adequate radiological assessment; • Subjects who had no baseline or post -baseline radiological assessmen t will be censored on Day 1 , unless the subject died within <n> days of Day 1 , in which case the subject will be considered as having an event at the date of death. • When an analysis cutoff date is implemented, only data (deaths and radiological assessments ) occurring on or prior to the cutoff date will be used for analysis. Interventions that influence determination of date of event or censoring Sometimes before a progressive event occurs , the patient may have an intervention that takes priority over the date of the progressive event. These interventions can include withdrawals from treatment or adverse events requir ing treatment that conflicts with the study treatment. The following are examples of situations that may impact censo ring rules , although this list is by no means exhaustive.